so the solution was when you play in
your region
how do you feel about the people in the
games that you're with
and he's like they're dog and i
told him as long as you treat them like
dog
you will be treated like you will think
that you are dog because that's the
construction
that's the play that your mind enacts
i recently discovered that a lot of the
emotions i've felt in the past can be
described as fear of missing out
or fomo i don't know if there's a mental
health equivalent
i've had the hardest time trying to
describe this feeling and i've always
defaulted to
envy that wasn't always true i get fomo
from people doing stuff i don't even
care about or want and it's borderline
debilitating
i've ended friendships because of the
life they live and how much it scared me
and upset me that they were living more
life than me even though i didn't care
to have that particular thing
i've recently pledged to myself to live
more and improve
doing more and experiencing stuff i
haven't experienced before
but i still get this absolutely
heartbreaking feeling that others are
somehow enjoying it more than me
and i get angry at myself for not
enjoying myself or finding satisfaction
in things
it's a vicious cycle that keeps feeding
in on itself and causing
causing me to want to give up even
trying
i think if i was somehow able to find
the real satisfaction in things
i do i'd be less likely to feel dwarfed
by other people's experiences
oh man i feel like each of these could
be an hour-long lecture chat
the fear of missing out is a really
interesting
challenge and i think once again it's
like an umbrella term that may have
multiple
roots to it okay the first thing that
i'm going to share with you guys
so is actually from yoga so it's a
really interesting
passage from i forget which upanishad
made maybe the taitreya upanishad
that talks about proximal emotions and
distal emotions
so what the yogis realized is that
there's a set of emotions that we
feel that are like
more acceptable that actually have like
underlying
more toxic emotions underneath
so like envy can actually be like the
proximal emotion
it's like oh like i feel happy for
someone
i wish i was like that and underneath
that can actually be like
anger or hatred so it's kind of really
interesting because i'm not surprised
that we see
if you guys paid attention to the case
right like the further down we go
the more we get to like hatred so
interestingly enough
when you're dealing with these proximal
emotions and distal emotions like the
acceptable emotion which is like envy
like it's okay to be envious of someone
right like i wish i had that
it's less okay to be like i hate that
person for having that
and so the interesting thing is that you
know a lot of this
could come from dealing with your hatred
so like do you hate those people
like do you hate people who have more
than you what is it like that
other people have had more than you and
you have not
so i would ask this person if you have
fomo and you kind of feel envious of
other people
ask yourself like step one underneath
the envy is their hatred
and like how do you because a lot of
times like we don't want to hate our
friends right like it's very
conflicting internally it's very
distinct
so we don't let ourselves feel that and
since we don't let ourselves feel that
it never goes away it just stays there
it lingers
it's the trash can that's rotting in the
corner that you never let yourself look
at
because you never explore it and so it
kind of like fuels this stuff
that's number one okay so explore for
hatred underneath
the second thing is to start to think a
little bit about like when did you miss
out
right so now we're gonna take the
sumscar approach so like i
if i was talking to this person in an
interview what i would kind of ask them
is like
when did you start missing out in life
what does it kind of feel like to miss
out like have there been times in your
life where like
you know there was someone who like got
something that you didn't have
and like there was like the person who
was happy and then there was like you
who was like neglected and you really
wanted to be that person
and explore that stuff that's how you
may find the root of it
okay so to ask yourself when did you
start missing out
when was the first time that you felt
fomo really really powerfully
and forget about social media because
chances are it has
like it may be something for your
personal life maybe something when you
were young
like your parents took your sibling on a
trip and they left you behind like
something like that okay
the third thing is that social media
makes fomo worse
right so like social media creates a
system for our brain
that is busted so if i have 30
friends on facebook the stuff that
facebook is going to populate my feed
with is the stuff that gets the most
likes
so person number one has a birthday
bunch of likes bunch of comments i see
that person number two the next day goes
on vacation
person number three has a baby person
number four graduates from college
person number five wins an award person
number six gets engaged
person number seven gets an uh promotion
person number eight
goes has a big surprise party that their
parents throw for them
person number 10 gets a gift from their
parents gets a brand new car
and what happens is our mind sees
all of these like high points from 30
different people's lives and then what
we
see appears to be like this glot of a
perfect life
because our brain doesn't really process
that like for every post this person
makes
that they get a thousand likes they make
a thousand posts that get one like
what your brain sees is the thousand
posts that you make that get one like
so this kind of fomo phenomenon is like
very clearly tied to social media
and like is almost predatory in terms of
the way that it like
you know enhances this feeling so there
is this stuff about you know
envy and hatred there's absolutely
finding the roots of it and then there's
like what propagates the phenomenon of
fomo in your life what builds up fomo
despite the roots
what's the fertilizer we're throwing
what's the fuel what's the gasoline
that we're pouring on top of the fire
the fire's there the fire is there
because of deep yogic roots
and past experiences in your life and
then social medias
the gasoline so this is where people say
just get off social media
which is challenging for any number of
reasons but my experience has been that
just getting off of social media doesn't
fix the problem that's the boomer
solution
just stop it no like people had fomo and
envy and hatred and jealousy far
before social media social media making
it worse is it aggravating it absolutely
right but then there's also like the
roots of the problem that you kind of
have to get to
so what i'd say to this person and if
you're kind of thinking about fomo right
is that like
it's normal to have fomo it's important
to understand that social media is going
to exacerbate it
but really ask yourself what are the
underlying emotions that are like
driving my feeling of fomo and then the
fourth thing that they said which i
think makes perfect sense
is um if i'm able to somehow find real
satisfaction in things i do i'd be less
likely to feel dwarfed by other people's
experiences
that person's precisely correct but it's
the other way around
you will never find real satisfaction in
things as long as you
are comparing based on other people
the way to find real satisfaction in
things is to let go of comparison
and so as long as your mind looks at
someone else and says this person is
better or worse than
mine me you will never find satisfaction
or happiness
and this is the really tricky thing so
the last thing if you the secret to fomo
okay if you want to really unplug fomo
there's one tiny psychological life hack
as much as i detest the term
that you can use that will actually
disarm fomo
and that is you feeling superior to
other people in particular situations
so as long as you let yourself feel
superior to others
the reverse of that will happen to you
you will feel inferior
so letting go of your feelings of
inferiority start by letting go of your
feelings of superiority
i was working with a professional player
from a particular region in a particular
sport
this person is very good was very high
up
in their region and traveled and would
boot camp in a different region that is
known to be a quote-unquote stronger
region
and he would find himself in pub games
with other people
who were like the top players for that
region and he felt
like his words literally dog
playing with them
any mistake he made he would feel like
oh my god like these
epic players that i've looked up to my
entire life must
think that i am dog he would think
that and he would ask me like how do i
let go of this like i just can't play
with these people
it's really messing up my mental so the
solution was when you play
in your region how do you feel
about the people in the games that
you're with and he's like they're dog
and i told them as long as you treat
them like dog
you will be treated like you will think
that you are dog because that's the
construction
that's the play that your mind enacts
and as long as you're feeling superior
it's just the flip side of the coin
and so it's interesting because he's
gotten a lot better
right like he's like oh like the less
judgmental he's become the less superior
he feels
right towards those people like actually
like he has gotten way better
and his performance is actually
objectively improved and
and he has been placing higher in
international events
so the last thing about fomo is if you
feel inferior to other people
you can also disarm the suit feeling of
superiority
notice that why do i feel better than
this person as you explore that you will
actually deflate the inferiority with it
it's both it's all ego
ahamkara right so the ahamkara so we'll
just summarize with like sanskrit baby
it goes back to the yoga
the ahamkada is the eye feeling it
compares
as long as the hum god is active you're
going to be making comparisons
the sense of identity the me the i'm a
doctor i went to harvard
in my mind every time i say i went to
harvard my mind is drawing a comparison
to everyone who did it
it makes me feel a little bit superior
so i have to notice that
each and every time and as long as i
notice that and i say actually you're
not better than anyone else
like just rng baby you just lucked out
like literally it was rng right
and so as long as you're feeling
superior to other people you're gonna be
feeling inferior somewhere else it's
it's because equality is equality man
like you can't
if you're not equal you're not equal and
that's gonna come with superiority and
inferiority
how to not feel guilty about your
successful rng like it's rng dude
just appreciate it just right so
it's it can be challenging that's
another thing so
when you say how to not feel guilty
about your successful rng it's not about
the rng it's about the feeling of guilt
so the question is like
why does your mind find something to
feel guilty about
just can't chill that's what you need to
work on forget about the rng you can
this is the problem is that a lot of
people look at the
object that their mind looks at instead
of the
way that their mind looks at it like a
case of the what ifs
right like a case of the shooter woulda
cut us i should have done this i could
have done this i would have done this
your mind is always thinking like oh i
should have done this i should have done
this i should have done this
why is your mind producing the should
thoughts to begin with that's what you
need to focus on
you should focus on why your mind is
focusing on
yeah i love this quote from billy fanboy
there's nothing from
ernest hemingway there's nothing noble
in being superior to your fellow man
truman nobility is being superior to
your former self
beautiful